---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Data Submission

Data Submission 

From Compilation page 23 of short guide

Step 6 has been completed when every participating the data ready, but it needs to be compiled to be analyzed.

The local field agents will compile the farmer-generated observation data. To do so, they have different options, including using ODK-based forms generated by ClimMob. Data 
compilation in the field can be done offline with ODK Collect. If the local field agents cannot upload the data directly from the field, they upload the data from ODK Collect as soon as 
they have an internet connection. It is important to upload the data regularly to avoid any inadvertent data loss. To upload the new data to your database, choose ‘Send data’ with the 
ODK Collect app on an Android device. If data is collected through physical visits, each field agent can usually cover up to 25 farmers. 

Some alternative options for data collection can make the process more efficient. Some of the different options include:
• Visit farmers, inspect observation cards and transcribe farmers’ observations directly to the ODK Collect App.
• Take photos of the observation cards to copy the data later directly into your database or input the data using ODK Collect App. Remember to write down the farmers’ name 
and package ID with the number of each photo.
• Call the farmers on their own or their neighbor’s telephone and fill out the form in ODK based on the information transmitted by the 
farmer during the call.
• New data collection formats (WhatsApp, interactive voice response) can be made available. Check with the ClimMob team.